One of the elements of people judgment
is what is the right founder for the
right market. I really like a certain
archetype of founder. I call them the
technical terminator. The thing that I
like about these technical terminators
is they start technical and then you
never know if these people are going to
become commercially minded excellent you
know sort of business people. And then
over time they learn the business side.
I think early stage investors can often
give you an interesting opinion about
what the distant future looks like.
Probably great growth stage investors
like you can give a really interesting
view on what the near to medium-term
future looks like. the companies that
you've backed are sort of a who's who of
leaders across different technology
sectors. If you had to think like three
to five years out, what are some of the
most interesting ways you think the
future will be different than the
present based on your experience with
the companies that you've backed?
>> Obviously, the big topic that we're
tackling and trying to figure out in the
near future is the impact of AI. We've
backed a ton of really exciting
companies at every layer of the stack
and we can talk about that and, you
know, that's been part of our strategy.
uh you know from the model layer um
infrastructure and tools applications
I would break it apart into what do
consumers do and what do enterprises do
in the AI world and then I have a bunch
of views on how the world's going to be
different as it relates to American
dynamism you know hardware plus software
robotics autonomy stuff like that on the
AI side for consumers I think we need to
be really humble about where we are
right now but I don't think that we have
yet found the dominant in AI we may have
the the dominant And you know, OpenAI
and Chad GBT has grown faster than
anything in the history of technology.
You know, I think they reach the same
scale as Google, something like four
times faster.
>> You know, billion people using it. And
they're only monetizing a tiny piece of
that, which I think is a really exciting
dynamic.
But I don't think that the future of how
we interact with AI is going to be a
chatbot. Like I just think that's way
too limiting. I think the big shift will
be uh a sort of what is reactive today
to something that's proactive in the
future and chat GPT may be able to
capture that and I think they probably
have the best chance of doing so but I
think the way that we interact with all
this stuff is going to change
dramatically it's going to have long
form memory it's going to be multimodal
um and it's going to be proactive it's
going to offer us uh you know solutions
and how we do things so I'm super
excited about that but I think the
open-ended upside of what companies can
capture in economics from that is kind
of endless in size. You know, I like to
look at uh history of consumer internet
companies and what were our perceptions
and then what actually ended up
happening reality. So I think it's
instructive to look back at Facebook and
Google and I remember when we were in
the private markets looking at
investments in things like Snap and
Twitter you know 10 plus years ago and
we would always sit and say well yeah
but Facebook and Google only monetize at
X certain amount and you know all the
consumer internet businesses are sort of
Psq businesses and you know the P is you
know quantity is has ended up being you
know billions of users kind of two and a
half two and a half billion users or
more in each case. Uh, but we always
said, oh, you know, Facebook or Google,
they make 20 bucks a user. So, like
that's kind of the upper bound. And fast
forward 10 years later and Facebook and
Google make like 200 bucks a user in the
developed world. And so when we look at
things like chat GPT, it's really fun to
think about this. It's like, okay, how
much time do people spend? What kind of
value do they get? How much consumer
surplus is there? And how do we think
about valuing that? And it's pretty
open-ended, uh, which is which is really
exciting right now. So the really
interesting thing is, you know, if you
look at JHPT and the consumer stuff,
there's like a billion users. They
monetize less than 50 million of them.
And how will they monetize the rest?
That's a really fun problem to try to
tackle.
>> Uh I think I think it's hard to describe
what it'll be. I think it'll be some
form of like an affiliate thing that
happens. It's like a new native thing.
Like it's the the thing I always say to
people is, you know, uh we again we got
to be humble in how we think about this.
We never would have predicted what a
feedbased advertisement is. Like no one
would have known what that is because we
didn't even know what the feed-based
product was. It turns out it's probably
the best advertisement format in
history. Like it's really really
compelling. Um and so it's not
surprising that it monetizes really high
and and people actually really like it.
Like I really like Instagram ads. So you
know the a year ago this the sort of
light bulb went off for me. Maybe it was
6 months ago. Um, I did deep research
on, um, you'll probably relate to this,
a new baseball bat for my son. And so,
you know, he's 9 years old, and it's
pretty complicated. It's like, okay, it
needs to be a certain length and drop
and all these certain specifications.
Uh, and, you know, there's there's this
year's version and last year's version.
And if I had to do that on Google, like,
it would be a total mess. Like, I would
I would struggle with it. Amazon, no
chance because of the ads. Deep Research
was really, really, really good at it.
and it kind of solved my problem for me.
Uh, and so light bulb kind of went off
for me at that moment. One, the models
are going to get so much better. And
two,
to me, it's sort of an execution problem
of building the capabilities to go
execute that stuff on your behalf on the
web. And so, I think that's a really
exciting future. There's going to need
to be tons of guardrails built into it.
You got to build a ton of product and
piping to do so. It's really hard. you
know, Instagram famously tried to do
shopping kind of natively and it it it's
just too hardly. But I think that's a
pretty exciting future and shopping is
just one category. Yeah. Um so, you
know, if I take a step back and I think
about AI today, really active users
spend almost 30 minutes a day in the
products. Like for context,
users spend like 50 minutes a day on
Instagram and like 70 minutes a day on
Tik Tok. They're monetizing only a
slight few of them today. Consumers get
a ton of value. there's going to be a
ton of consumer surplus available and I
think that could lend itself to the
creation of a a huge company, massive
company. Uh and again I think Judge Bat
is in the lead today. Uh but it's early
>> in in that specific area of the world,
the sort of pure AI part of the world.
Where do you feel the most different
than your peers in what you think
matters, what you think is exciting or
or not exciting worries you have? Like
where do you feel most divergent
>> from your friends?
>> Um I feel like I'm probably reasonably
consensus on the excitement on the
consumer side. Yeah,
>> I can put it into context around the
sort of upside around price that you get
P on the P times Q especially if time
spent continues to go up which I think
it will as the models get better and
they have memory and things like that. I
think on the enterprise side, one of the
lessons I learned from SAS and cloud,
which by the way, the advance the
advancements of SAS and cloud are tiny
compared to the advancements of what AI
is going to do, is I think maybe a
little bit more expansively on what the
companies can become on the enterprise
side. Um, but maybe I'm slightly more
skeptical about what their ultimate
business models will be. So one of the
really fun topics that people debate
with with high degrees of confidence uh
that I have very low confidence in uh is
what is the ultimate business models of
these companies and people put up these
super compelling slides that are like
hey you know the whole software industry
is only whatever $400 billion but look
at how big white collar labor is and
we're going to go get a ton of that. And
to me that's like a little bit handwavy.
So, you know, there's a couple of areas
where the business model has progressed
in a compelling way to go tackle that
directly. So, customer support is one,
but because there's a very discreet task
with very simple completion analysis
that you can do,
it's kind of simple to price it on that.
Like you can shift a business model from
a seatbased thing for Zenesk or
something to a new business model where
if you successfully complete the task,
you can charge on that.
>> You know what it's worth. you know what
it's worth.
Maybe the next furthest developed area
is coding. Um, but it's not completion
of a task. It's consumption driven. And
especially in the developer world, that
whole world is used to plan paying
things on consumption. Like it's kind of
how it has all shifted over the last 10
years.
Everything else I think is pretty TBD.
It's going to be very hard. And I think
when you see major technological shifts,
it's very tempting to say, "Oh my gosh,
there is so much economic value that all
these companies are going to capture um
top down." The reality of doing it is
much harder. And you know, I I always
say to people like 90% of the
technological surplus is going to go to
the end users. Like just start with that
as the assumption. whether it's
consumer, whether it's enterprise, you
know, like a a funny analogy that I
heard from somebody else is, you know,
how would how is the steam engine
ultimately priced? Like it wasn't priced
based on replacing like 50 laborers. The
competitive forces drove it to a certain
price where there was an appropriate
return on capital. Um, but the vast
majority of those productivity gains
went to the end users of those those
machines, not the not the maker of the
machines. And so I think something
similar will probably happen in the
enterprise.
Even with that, you can create the
biggest businesses in the world. So, you
know, an analogy would be Apple, right?
Like what would you pay for your iPhone?
>> A lot more.
>> I mean, yeah, that the sky's is the
limit. Like 90% consumer surplus is
probably low. Uh, you know, if the
iPhone costs a,000 bucks or something
like that. Um, so, you know, I'd say the
same for Google. I'd say the same for
Facebook. It's going to happen in
consumer. Consumers are going to be the
ones who realize the surplus. The same
is going to happen in business, but I
think the next generation of business
companies can still be much bigger than
the previous generation of companies
given the capability gains. Um, when I
last ran into you a couple years ago in
person in San Francisco, we were talking
about Whimo and you you were sort of in
the mode of like intensely studying that
company and thinking about it, which
makes me very interested in this class
of companies where you heard about Whimo
and self-driving as a service for a
really really long time with sort of
nothing happening and then all of a
sudden, you know, last time I was in San
Francisco a couple weeks ago, it's just
every other car. And the explosive
nature of Whimo as an example is really
cool to watch. There's all these other
technologies. You might call them
American dynamism and horiz,
you know, small modular reactors or like
really exciting big technology ideas
which are uh you understand the
potential like if we had an in-home
robot that'd be awesome but it's really
hard to figure out how long it will take
maybe similar to how long we took or
something. How do you think about
investing in those kinds of companies
where like it's incredibly exciting?
Clearly, if we had it and it worked, it
would be really valuable, but it's
really hard to know how long it's going
to take to work.
>> It's often these are the ones that are
the biggest market opportunity,
>> right?
>> Like robotics is the biggest market
opportunity. Like we we were all
obsessed with LL.
>> Yeah, if you knew it was going to work
in 5 years, you put all your money.
>> You put all your money into it. Uh I
happen to think it will take a little
bit longer. Um, part of that is informed
by my experience with Whimo.
You know, if you think like I'd contrast
maybe what Whimo does and and you know,
increasingly Tesla and some others, uh,
with what a robot needs to do. And it's
very different. Uh, you know, uh, a a
car needs to basically stay in a lane,
avoid anomalies, collisions, go a
certain speed limit, find places to
park.
>> Sounds simple. Like when I describe it
that way, it's it's sort of, you know,
it's sort of
>> and it's more it's much more complicated
than that. But, you know, simply put,
that's kind of what it has to do. I
contrast that with what a robot has to
do. Like what does a robot have to do in
your home?
>> Endless degrees of freedom. Like make a
cup of coffee, uh, you know, go do my
laundry. But it took Whimo 10 years and
you know if you go back uh to the DARPA
challenge like the whole industry you
know decades uh to get to this point two
decades to get to this point roughly and
so my expectation is technology is
advanced obviously the generative AI
techniques can be applied to robotics to
help it go much faster but I think it's
going to take a long time.
>> So how do you invest in that? So
>> we have an early stage team that is
studying all the robotics companies. We
meet them all. We're learning a ton.
we're waiting for them to find, you
know, the team that they can do an early
stage traditional kind of seed or series
A investment in. Um, and then at the
growth stage, ideally they find that and
we can invest in it or one of these
companies that we're not investors in
really starts to work and, you know,
we've debated what does it what does it
mean to work? Uh, I think we'll know it
when we see it. You know, uh, like there
will be things that start happening and
customers pulling their products that we
will have not seen before. What's the
lesson from Whimo there on what it means
to start to work? Like what what do you
think in the history of Whimo was the
point at which you would have said,
"Okay, now like something happened and
that makes this more investable."
>> So the interesting thing about Whimo for
us, I'll tell you the history of of our
Whimo investment. We originally invested
in 2020 in Whimo. They came to us uh to
raise outside capital for the first
time. So it's just purely funded by
Google over time. They thought it would
be helpful for employees, for hiring,
all that stuff, outside council, all
that, diversify the cap table, uh to to
bring on some outside investors. So, uh
some folks invested in it. We were the
only VC firm that invested in it. Uh we
invested out of our first growth fund
and it was really fun because and this
is seeing the future like taking the
ride in 2019. It was doing some pretty
amazing stuff in in retrospect. uh you
know it could do unprotected lefts, it
could avoid construction sites and uh
the thing it didn't know how to do
actually was like park. You know we got
to a parking lot and it kind of like
stalled and you know we had to override
and go drive up to the front. Uh but you
could see signs that it was it was it
was going to be pretty interesting but
it wasn't on the road. Uh you know we
knew they were going to be conservative
about rolling it out. So Mark and Ben
came to me and they said, "Uh, hey, you
know, we we got to do this whim way
investment." And I said, "Uh,
I no, like I don't like this at all.
Like this is crazy. It's going to take
10 years. Uh, you know, the valuation
that we come in at is going to be really
high." And they said,
>> you know what?
>> Don't care.
>> Don't care. Like this is autonomous
driving. Like are you kidding me? This
is the mother of all markets. like if
they have the thing that can drive cars
autonomously, it's going to be worth a
ton. Like stop overthinking it. And you
know, my team, we had built all this
analysis and why, you know, it would
take forever and the economics were
going to be strained. And so we
compromised and we made a small
investment in Whimo at the time and I
was excited to to be a part of it. I
just I I thought the returns would be
stretched. Fast forward five years
later, uh, at the end of 2024, they
raised money again and at the end of
2024, they had cars on the road and it
turned out you, to your question,
consumer preference slapped you in the
face. Like anyone who was in San
Francisco who had the choice was taken a
Whimo. But at that time, we had the
chance to invest more money, you know,
and it was working. We took that
opportunity to to write a much larger
check and invest. By the way, one of the
really interesting things about Whimo,
so you said you see it, you're in San
Francisco, you see it everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> How many cars do you think they have on
the road in San Francisco? Because
they're everywhere, right? Like
everywhere you turn, you see them.
>> 10,000.
>> They have like 400.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> So, it turns out if your cars are
driving optimal routes and uh sort of
fully utilized and not running into some
of the problems that drivers have, like
it's pretty good. And so you can have a
lot of coverage. There are something
like 50,000 lift drivers in the San
Francisco Bay area and uh Whimo overtook
them in market share. It
>> it feels like the appropriate time to
disclose that you and I went to college
together. The the reason I me the reason
I mention that is usually when we get
together we don't jump into talking
about investing.
stuff
>> which makes me realize I don't think
I've ever actually asked you like what
is your investment like philosophy or
strategy or style or taste like like
like what what is it and how did it
develop? My style and taste
is very much
if I were summarized in one line,
I like to pay fair prices for great
companies. Like everyone would say they
would like to do that, right?
The art in that I think is recognizing
where greatness may lie where other
people don't recognize that. And so
>> unpriced greatness,
>> it's priced but not to the fullest
extent. Yeah.
>> Right. Like and so I've studied, you
know, the history of technology
companies and why they outperform and
how they outperform. Often in growth
stage investing,
>> it it's always on the growth side. It's
like, hey, the growth side is where you
get things really right. uh I tell the
team that it's like we can make a lot of
mistakes on forecasting margins and
business models and unit economics and
all that stuff but lots of people know
how to do that analysis that's out
there. So where can you actually get
edge? You can get edge from product
insights, market insights, and people
insights. And so how do we maximize our
likelihood of doing that
on the people side? I'll start there
because that's probably the hardest to
do and I've gotten it right a number of
times and I think I have reasonably good
taste in people. Like I really like a
certain archetype of founder. I call him
the technical terminator. I'm very close
with with Ali from datab bricks. Ali is
the technical terminator. Like he
>> self-evident.
>> It's self-evident. Uh it wasn't
self-evident,
>> you know, all along. He actually wasn't
even the CEO,
>> you know. He he became the CEO later.
>> Uh
>> but he started the open source project,
right?
>> Yeah. He was one of seven. One of seven.
And so he was not the CEO. Uh there was
a much more established uh guy who we've
partnered with on a lot of companies.
He's he's been a co-founder of a lot of
companies. Great companies have come out
of his lab. Yan Stoka uh in Berkeley.
The thing that I like about these
technical terminators
is they start technical and then you
never know if these people are going to
become commercially minded excellent,
you know, sort of business people.
Um, and so you have the grounding, you
have the products. Those are the people
that are likely to figure out the next
product area because they're technical
because they're in the products. Um, you
know, Mark Zuckerberg is an example of
this. Elon's a great example of this.
Um, and then over time they learn the
business side. So, it's it's been so fun
to work with Ali because he knows more
about like sales ops and hiring
processes and reporting lines and all
these things you have to do as a manager
uh than probably any of our CEOs, but he
learned them all. Like he's just been a
sponge. Like,
>> you have a favorite counter example to
the technical terminator like somebody
that is completely non-technical?
>> Travis.
>> Okay. Interesting.
>> Yeah. At Uber.
>> Yeah. So one of the elements of people
judgment is
what is the right founder for the right
market, right? And that market was just
a pure
battle. Like it was like you needs
>> Yeah. Like you fight mayors, you fight
competitors. And by the way, there there
were competitors like you know and so
you just needed to be ruthlessly
competitive and driven and operationally
intense. And you know that's he's the
perfect counterex example to that and we
were we were I was an investor in Uber
at GA. Uh and you know he he's the
archetype but there's a lot more of
these technical ones that become great
business people in my life. You know
George Curts from Crowdstrike is a great
example of it. I I'll tell you one more
example which is not as obvious. Dave
from Roblox. you know when we met him I
met him you know maybe 10 years ago or
something and early days of whether it
was actually kind of working and he was
technically brilliant and he was so deep
in the product and you know he's the
kind of guy that on the surface if you
didn't really know him well you would
kind of be like oh is he a little bit
he's a little quieter and it turns out
like he's ruthlessly competitive and he
really cares about market cap creation
and like his stock price going up and
for the right reasons um you know Dylan
from Figma is a great example of this.
Like he's so nice. He's one of the
nicest guys in our industry,
>> but he is brutally ruthlessly
competitive. The new AI guys and and
women like it's been really fun to see
them develop this. Michael from Curser,
Shiv uh from a bridge who's practicing
practicing cardiologist who has then
shifted his attention
>> uh to you know building a technology
company. He uh he lives in Pittsburgh
and he commutes to New York uh to work
most of the time and uh I was with him
in the office the other day and and he
said, you know, he's showing me the
office. I'm like, oh yeah, cool. That's
great. That's nice. He's like, "Yeah,
I'm going to put a bed over there. I'm
going to start sleeping in there." I'm
like, "Man, you're you're like a a
doctor with kids and stuff." And he's
like, "No, no, no. I just want to I want
to be working all the time when I'm in
town." Uh so you know I love that sort
of relentlessness, intensity paired with
you know technological capabilities,
product understanding.
>> Um and you know backing people like
that,
>> they're going to like pour everything
they have into winning,
>> but they're also more likely to figure
out the next things and navigate complex
markets and changing environments. If I
had access to your entire calendar for
the last 5 years or something and saw
all the companies and the debates where
you ultimately didn't invest but almost
did, what would I learn from like that
batch of companies and founders? This is
a very humbling job because we make so
many mistakes. Errors of commission are
really painful. Errors of omission are
really, really painful, too. And they're
more costly just economically because
you can lose one times your money uh if
if you get things wrong on an error of
commission. But you can forego making
really high returns if you if you get it
wrong. There are no common patterns. I
would say when we get it right on a on
not doing an investment, it's typically
for the right reasons. It's typically
because we see something that we don't
love about the business quality. You
know, we feel really really really
strongly about market leadership. Do you
know the Glengary Glenn Ross movie?
>> Yeah, I know the movie. Yeah. uh you
know the scene with Alec Baldwin,
>> refresh our memories.
>> Okay, so Alec Baldwin comes in, there's
the scene with Alec Baldwin where uh you
know he's he's running like a sales
contest. This like a boiler room setting
and he comes in, he's running a a sales
contest and he walks in and he's like,
"Okay guys, new contest. Here we go.
First prize gets Cadillac. Second prize
gets a set of steak knives. Third prize,
you're fired." Right? And so we've
adopted that as a way of describing most
of the technology markets that we live
in. So we happen to think and I happen
to think strongly and my experience has
been the vast majority of market cap
creation is going to go to the market
leader. And this is probably
underappreciated like we see this all
the time with our peers in the in the
growth investing industry where they say
things like yeah you know even the
number two player like is going to be
really viable like maybe but like more
often than not that's not the case.
That's kind of obvious in network effect
driven businesses, consumer internet
companies, Google, Facebook, etc. It's
it's less obvious in enterprise
companies, but it happens just as often.
Like there's no number two to
Salesforce. Like Salesforce is
Salesforce, workday is workday. Service
Now is Service Now. Like, and you'd feel
a lot of pain if you did the number two
or god forbid the number three in those
markets. In early days of technological
shifts, markets tend to fragment in ways
that we don't foresee and they end up
being less competitive in certain areas
and people kind of settle into different
areas. So, you know, on the model side,
so far the way it looks like it's played
out is
it will be more like the cloud industry
like it's not going to be a winner take
all. Certain technical advantages seem
uh limited in time frame, right? like
there's kind of you know always this
kind of constant leaprogging of the
model industry. So I think it will look
like you know the the cloud industry in
the sense that there will be multiple
players there will be profit pools for
them. It's it's sort of like uh early
days we we were saying like is this
going to be aircraft manufacturing or is
it going to be airlines like those are
the two extreme ends of the spectrum.
Aircraft manufacturing has high profit
margins um because there's really high
capital intensity and it's extremely
hard technically.
>> So that like would seem to mirror the
the model industry. Airlines on the
other hand, you know, are horribly
competitive industries and you know that
they all go bankrupt in the fullness of
time. So it seems like the model
industry is going to be like aircraft
manufacturers or the cloud industry.
>> Why did cloud play out the way it did?
Like is it just size of market? is that
>> I think it's size. Yeah, I think it's
size market.
>> Is that is it that simple that if the
market's big enough, you're just going
to have multiple winners and winner take
all.
>> Yeah, it's size and market. Um to me,
it's all that one is all size of market.
Like it's just so vast. And cloud is
such an interesting market because the
cloud like if you could just
independently own AWS, Microsoft, Azure,
and GCP, like those would be some of the
most valuable companies in the world.
Like those would be awesome businesses
to own.
on the other side of it. You know, my
one of my partners, Alex Rampel, has
this has this has this statement that he
likes to say, which is like the best
best businesses in the world don't have
customers, they have hostages.
>> That's not actually the case in cloud.
Like, sure, there are some things like
egress fees. Like, the clouds are
anti-competitive with egress fees. Like,
they make it really hard to leave and
get your data out and all that stuff,
but that's kind of minor. Like,
generally speaking, the customers in
that market are well served. Like,
they're happy. like it's been positive
some for them you know and at the same
time the clouds are really good
businesses
>> I think the same is likely to happen in
the model space and so the market is
going to be so big it will fragment in
ways that we don't yet expect and you
know even if you're in a number two in
terms of absolute revenue size or you
know sort of market awareness uh that's
okay
what's not okay probably I would think
is being in the number two in something
like the dominant consumer, you know,
chat interface or something like that.
>> I want to talk about competition in our
industry for investment opportunities in
the market leaders led by technical
terminators or or others. It it's become
in our collective careers, you've been
in this specific business much longer
than me. Uh but in across your career,
it's become way more institutionalized.
There's way more players. There's way
more money. the people you're up against
on a daily basis are probably more
talented um sometimes by a lot. Uh so
you have to keep up with that. How does
the competitive describe the competitive
dynamic when you are trying to make a
big investment in a big exciting company
led by a consensus amazing person in a
big market like what does that feel like
now? And I'm also interested in how how
it's changed over time.
>> Yeah. So Mark and Ben have told the
stories about the origin of starting the
firm and you know their experience with
the venture capital product and you know
why they built the firm the way they
they did and whenever they tell those
stories I'm like that's great and man
wouldn't it have been fun to compete in
that time like that would have been
awesome. The market is definitely more
competitive now. It's become a lot more
institutionalized for good reason
though. Like the thing that I'm telling
our team and I talk about with my
partners now is we're a grown-up
industry now. Like this is no longer
some little bespoke asset class. When I
started my career, there were, you know,
you and I were getting out of college.
How many There were probably one or two
technology companies in the largest 10
market cap companies in the world. Now
it's eight of 10. Eight of 10 and seven
of the eight are West Coast technology
venturebacked companies. Like I feel
like that hasn't that realization hasn't
really fully hit uh you know the finance
industry. You know if you look at that
tech has kind of overtaken all of the
market cap creation and is driving you
mostly driving force of the stock market
and the economy. The private markets
have become a real asset class. This is
something I'm studying now. Uh because,
you know, the venture industry, you
know, is sort of seen as like this non
small non-scalable thing. Turns out
there's 5 trillion of private market cap
that is, you know, up 10x in the last 10
years. And it's honestly some of the
best companies in the world. That market
cap represents almost a quarter of the
entire S&P 500. It's more than half of
the mag 7. So,
I think that we now are in the grown-up
in the big leagues and we need to start
acting like it. So, we've adapted our
firm a lot to that realization.
Um, and oh, by the way, one other
comment just on that industry, you know,
and how it's changed. We just did this
analysis. If you look at our public
universe, so where do we spend most of
our time? It's like software consumer
and fintech stuff.
the public universe in those sectors,
there's less than five companies growing
30%.
It's kind of staggering like that's a
low number. Our our portfolio on average
dollar weighted is growing 112%.
And some of these companies are big
enough to be you know the the large
companies. And you know if you look at
the small cap universe and the public
markets first of all public markets have
shrunk by half in the last 20 years. And
if you look at the uh the the sort of
composition of small cap public
companies, the quality I would argue is
so much lower than what is available in
the private markets. So the industry is
real. It shouldn't be a surprise that
the competition has intensified. I think
about the competition similar to how our
venture folks think about it, which is
the market has sort of become a barbell.
um you know and so we're faced with the
the large multi-stage firms that have
very strong venture practices on the one
hand and those are the fiercest
competitors for us. I respect my peers
there. They're trying to play the same
game as us which is when we have
something special at the series A or the
seed like we want to hold it really
tightly and they want to do the same
thing and sometimes they're effective at
it. Uh sometimes we're effective at it
but we have to kind of battle that out.
on the other side is you know on the
venture side it's sort of bespoke kind
of uh you know in the retail analogy
there's like the the superstore like the
Walmart and you know Amazon which is
sort of how we would get characterized
and then the other side is sort of like
the Gucci store you know or the Prada
store which is like deep specialization
so you know Nat and Daniel would have
been an example of that you know Ilad
you know is an example of that and then
there's many others that do a really
good job, you know, at what they do. So,
you know, I have respect for a lot of
the crossover folks, you know, who are
in our world and and have built private
businesses and and have done a good job
with it. So, what do you do to beat
these people? Like the actual extreme
versions of the answer, like the lengths
that you're willing to go to to win. I
>> I think you would love to have some
story that's like sensational in the
moment where we did something crazy. The
reality of the growth stage business is
we win deals based on years of
relationship building. You know, we
recently did a deal where the founder,
we had sort of worked the founder so
hard that, you know, he called us and uh
and and he was like, "Hey, I'm ready to
do this. I'll just talk to you." And I'm
like, "Oh, wow. Okay, fruits of my
labor. Like two years of this. This is
good."
>> Then at that point,
>> he's he it's one it's one of the best
companies in the market. And the dynamic
that we are faced with is okay, this is
awesome. I got a clean look. I know for
sure if he was going to market, he would
get a higher price than what he just
told me, but can I bear the price? And
so that's often the exercise that we
have to go through as growth investors
is what do we know differently about the
product or the market or what are our
expectations
that will allow us to do it that maybe,
you know, aren't as obvious. And so what
what are you doing in those two years
that earn you that right?
>> Maybe that's where the extreme measures
are.
>> Helping them as if we were already
investors in their company. And so
helping them with candidates, helping
them, customers, spending quality time
and showing that we understand their
business. Like often that's the biggest
thing. Honestly, the for the companies
where we're not existing investors,
oddly enough, sometimes it's easier
because our platform is so strong, our
brand is so strong. I'll give you
another fun example, which was, you
know, Dylan at Figma. When we first
invested invested in Dylan at Figma, you
know, I was considering joining the firm
from GA. This was 2018. You know, one of
I knew all the guys already at the firm.
And so, I'm spending time with Peter
Lavine, who was one of our partners. And
uh you know I come in and I'm like Peter
what what's top of mind? You know how
are you thinking about the growth
business? What can I tell you? And he
was like we need this tomorrow. We got
to invest in Figma. Like we need this
tomorrow. Like we I don't know how we
didn't you know we we we missed it. We
you know I was late to it. Like we just
need a growth business and it was a
growth deal and we should have done it.
It's crazy. We did GitHub early. How did
we not do this one? And he was just like
apoplelectic you know like I I need
this. And so that was very encouraging,
exciting. So day one, you know, I told
you I knew the six companies in the
portfolio. I also knew like the five-ish
companies that I really loved outside
the portfolio. You know, Roblox was one
that I was close to. Figma was another.
And so from the moment I joined, we had
done the fullcourt press on Dylan. Like
he came to our summit. You know, it was
Mark and Ben bear hugs. Like he was
really into crypto. We bear hugged him
on the crypto side. Like we did
everything we could with him, helping
him with a board search. who placed a
person in our network onto his board
like we were trying to do everything and
you know trying to catalyze a deal and
he was like I'll let you know when I'll
let you know when
>> so co strikes and he calls us and he's
like now's the time like oh my god this
was in the moment of co where we all
thought the world was going to end you
know everything was screwed
>> stock market was way down you know I
felt like oh great good timing uh so you
know at least we got the luck and so he
you know he came and pitched we had done
all the work and we're having the debate
as a team, you know, was taking this
traditional me and my team were taking
this traditional growth lens looking at
it and we're like the market for
designers is market for designers is not
that big. You know, it's like really
small and if you do the math of the
market size of designers and what they
charge, you know, just I don't think
that the price makes sense at $2
billion, like this is just it's too
limiting. And our venture guys were
losing their minds in this discussion.
They're like, you guys are totally
missing the point. like the number the
ratio of designers to engineers is
basically double for the modern
technology companies. So that's a
leading indicator. Everyone is going to
you know that ratio is going to change.
There's going to be double the designers
in the world. More importantly, the
whole engineering to design process is
changing and there's sort of a a melding
that's happening of front-end
engineering and design. And so thinking
about this as the market for design is
way too limiting. and so you're just
missing the point. We were debating it
and you know it was like speaking past
each other and finally Ben called it
off. He's like, "Okay, all right." Like
we're not going to solve this tonight.
You know, ultimately it was it was a
call on the growth fund side and I slept
on it and I woke up and I was like,
"Look, this is an exceptional business
model and we're kind of squinting to
believe enough on the market size, you
know, great founder, great business
model. Is the market good enough?" And
I'm kind of happy to take that risk. The
risk I don't want to take is quality of
business, quality of founder, but you
really had to have a nuanced view of the
market in order to get there as a like
with a traditional growth investing
lens. And so fortunately, we got there.
You know, it worked out really well. I
bring up that story one to say that's an
example of something where you kind of
have to the price is the price and you
kind of have to figure out if you can
take it like if you're willing for the
very best of the best companies. But
two, I think it speaks to the advantage
that we have and what you need to be
successful in growth investing. Like you
need those product and market insights
or you're just going to live in a
spreadsheet and die in a spreadsheet.
And so uh you know everything that we've
done or I've you know I have done and
our our team has done to design a
process of tightly integrating with our
early stage teams has been in the spirit
of optimizing insights around people
products and markets and I think that's
where you actually get success. One
thing that I'm trying to do more of
because I'm just interested by it is the
to hear about like the minutia of your
day and life like the in in this
incredibly competitive environment. I've
become interested in how some of the
best investors literally just like run a
given day.
>> Yeah.
>> And what that looks like for you and and
I think you'd be surprised like how in
the weeds I'm interested in learning
about. And so like air on the side of
detail, like I'm just I'm just curious
what the actual life of your job feels
and looks like. You know, Bob Swan, who
is a a longtime mentor and friend of
mine and and an operating partner at our
firm, gave me this really good advice
that he and John Dano at the end of
every year always went through an
exercise where they spent like two hours
looking at their calendar from the year
and then they had an objective of
cutting 30% of stuff that was on their
calendar and that, you know, there was a
way for them to make sure that they were
giving responsibility down to the people
on their teams. but also that they would
get leverage. So, he's given me that and
then he reminds me of it when he can
tell I'm too busy uh with things that I
shouldn't be. And so, I think I'm like
not very good at this, but I'll I'll
answer the question anyway. I try to
make sure I'm spending
adequate time meeting companies. So
right now our investment business looks
something like 2/3 relatively known
companies and one-third like kind of
newer stuff. But I want to make sure my
time is spent pretty differently than
that. Like I want my time to be 20% on
those known companies and spending time
with people like Ali and you know the
founders Vanderol like whatever it may
be flux safety but I want most of my
time spent on the new stuff like because
I need to be learning about those new
markets and so constantly meeting with
AI founders talking to to smart AI
employees and making sure that I'm deep
and conversational and have an
understanding of those markets. So I
spend a lot of my day on that. I've
started to kind of move away from like
doing one-on ones and I'm like, you know
what? I don't need to schedule one-on-
ones. I talk to my team all the time.
I'll call them after hours. I've started
to very deliberately block off hours and
days. So, I block off two hours every
Tuesday, two hours every Thursday. Um,
and then I also put an hour and a half
block twice a week in afternoons.
And that often gets consumed with things
that are pressing and you know I need to
make calls or whatever it may be. But I
find that I learn a lot and develop a
lot of my own thinking just by having
think time. You I'm the kind of person
that has 20 things open in the browser
and I want to read them all and then I
don't get to them. Uh so unless I block
off a bunch of time I actually just
don't find that I'm spending the time
learning as much as I should. You know
that's I'd say trying to learn about
companies, spending time with
entrepreneurs. I want to be 80% of my
time and then 20% is spending time with
founders, you know, internal management.
Um, you know, time shift when we're
fundraising.
>> How many new companies do you think you
meet a week?
>> We as a growth fund probably meet 30
>> companies a week. Now, not new, probably
30 companies a week. I personally
probably meet 10 maybe somewhere around.
>> How do you run those meetings? Like if I
came into one of those 10, what is the
structure of the meeting?
>> I keep the introduction super brief. I
like to jump in and say, "Hey, why don't
you please spend, you know, five minutes
explaining to me the strategy and your
vision?" Because I've read your website.
I know a little bit about the company.
I've talked to some customers maybe, but
like I need to hear the vi like the what
is the bigger thing. Like what do you
want to tell you? tell me uh and then I
just ask questions for 20 minutes.
>> Okay, so what do you think about this?
What do you think about that? This may
be a stupid question, but can you tell
me about this? And I find that to be a
lot more effective. Um and you know, the
ultimate compliment that we get from a
founder is like,
>> thanks, you've done your research or you
know, hey, thanks for asking that
question. That's pretty that's pretty
smart.
>> If you think about the reasons why you
do this versus something else, what are
the most important ones? Like why why
don't you why aren't you a founder? Why
don't you work in some other industry?
Why don't you have your own firm? Like,
there's other things that you could do.
What are the most important reasons why
this is the thing you do?
>> So, my wife would say that I have a low
attention span. What she means by that
is I'm interested in a lot of different
things. And this is a really cool way of
getting to learn about tons of new
stuff. I suspect this is the same reason
that you like to invest is how lucky are
we? We get to sit and spend time with
the entrepreneurs who are building the
most interesting companies in the world
right now. We get to learn about the
most cutting edge technology stuff that
if you were in the public markets or
just in a job, you would never get a
chance to learn about. So I love to
learn and I love to be around, you know,
kind of great founders as they're
exploring really interesting things. So
that that part of it is really really
attractive. There's another part that
plays to a totally different side of me
which is this business is a scoreboard
business and like I convey this to our
team all the time. There's a scoreboard
in this business and our expectation is
that we win. Now, it's a very longdated
scoreboard, you know, especially in the
venture side, but on the growth side
even, it's a pretty longdated
scoreboard, but at the end of the day,
like we have to put up returns like our
customers are our founders and our LPs.
And on the founder side, we need to make
sure we do a great job with them and
they're sort of a virtuous flywheel if
we do.
On the LP side, like it's pretty simple.
Are we doing a good job generating
returns? So we A16Z, we're known as sort
of running ourselves a little bit
differently as a firm. Mark and Ben
really drive that. We do things like,
you know, Ben runs every new employee on
boarding and he runs through our culture
document. When you sign an offer letter
at our firm, you sign your offer letter,
but you al also have to sign our culture
document, which lays out our cultural
principles. I also created a subset of
principles that I wanted to convey for
our growth fund. the scoreboard and we
expect to win is a very direct way of
saying like we better be competitive.
I have one that is we are the Yankees
and we're going to act like it. And what
I mean by that is not, you know, we're
going to be arrogant or, you know, we
think we're the best team or something
like that. What I mean by that is we're
lucky enough to be a part of a firm that
has an incredible brand.
And so we're going to run our team very,
very high performance. Like if you're on
the Yankees, you better be performing.
Like this is the big stage. And so our
expectations for our team, we're very
collaborative. We care about winning as
a team, but you better be good. Like you
better be doing your job really well.
You better be working hard. This is one
of the things that maybe is not as
obvious to people. It wasn't as obvious
to me actually until I joined the firm.
It's so funny when I when I was
considering it, my perception from the
outside before I really started the
process was like Mark and Ben, I don't
know, they're kind of they're like
celebrities, semi-seleelebrities, like
do they really work hard? They got all
these other interests. And I got in and
man, it is a competitive place. Like we
are very intensely competitive. We want
to win. And everybody works really,
really hard. like no one is resting on
their laurels. We're all constantly
chatting non-stop like late at night.
We're all working hard. We're kicking
around ideas. And I love that. I love
the dynamic of of partnership. Uh but
high expectations around performance on
the, you know, why am I at A16Z? Why
don't I run my own firm? I always tell
people kind of have a dream job. Like
this is awesome. I got to join a firm
that was on the top of their game. They
were on the ascent. Um, but there was a
a real latent opportunity for us to
build a franchise on the growth side and
I came from a place with a really strong
culture at GA. Uh, but I joined a place
that is full of optimism and I think you
need that in in growth investing. Like
that is the number one ingredient is you
got to be optimistic. You got to be able
to see what can go right.
But I also got a chance to hire the
team. I got to set the strategy, set the
investment process, take what I felt,
you know, were some of the learnings
that I had, which were great and, you
know, bring those things with me and
leave some things behind. And so, for
example, one of the things that that we
set up at the outset, was a a bit of a
different investment decision-making
process than a traditional growth equity
investment firm, right? So, most growth
equity investment firms have an
investment committee. It's central. you
go, you present, you kind of battle to
get the votes,
>> they they disappear and then the smoke
comes out and like here's the decision,
here's the decision. What we decided to
do at the firm in the growth fund was do
it totally differently. So, we were
going to actually make the decision
process just like our venture process,
which is single trigger puller.
>> The expectation I have set with our team
and that and that Mark and Ben have sort
of conveyed and and and I think we do a
pretty good job of is you got to be
intellectually honest. You've got to be
transparent and we openly expect
disagreement. But once you disagree, you
disagree and then you commit. I think by
doing it this way, you encourage people
to fully explore the risks of investing
and fully explore the rewards. You're
never in this temptation
to sell or to politic for a vote or try
to influence someone's decision for the
wrong reasons. like you really like
something and you really want to push.
We don't have that dynamic. So I think
it I think it allows us to more openly
explore the merits of an investment and
I think it's been you know a reasonably
good process and and we're small and so
we you know we move very fast. We do
this you know very iterative
iteratively. It's not like we need to
have a Monday investment committee
process. Like my first investment
committee uh decision was, you know,
before I even joined the firm and it
was, you know, Mark Scott and I having
breakfast and we were deciding on an
investment at breakfast. I like to keep
it informal, but we want to make it
rigorous at the same time. The other
thing I did that's a little bit
different is when we hired the team, by
the way, my I feel very lucky. It's one
of the most special parts of the job for
me. It's about 10 investors. So, it's
pretty small. The reason we can be so
small is because we have the early stage
teams. But, you know, a cultural trait
that I think we've done a pretty good
job of building is just collaboration
and and the willingness to roll up your
sleeves and help people as part of the
team's sort of promotion criteria,
evaluation, etc. I put in there
contribution to collective investment
judgment. Like entry level, like from
the start, this is part of your job. you
better be contributing to our collective
investment judgment and it's something
that we're going to evaluate you on from
the start and so it's a little bit
different you know for a junior person
to be faced with that a lot of times the
junior folks when they join they have to
find their footing and you know when do
they chime in when do they not but I
think it's made us you know better as a
as a team at making decisions
>> if you think about the environments that
are better or worse for growth investing
of the type that you do what are those
conditions like if you could cook up in
a in the kitchen like the perfect
environment for you to be deploying
dollars. What are the features of it?
>> Well, the optimal would be
early product cycle, bad capital cycle,
>> but those rarely happen in, you know,
coincide with one another. If I had to
pick, I mean, it's it's all early
product cycle for the style of growth
investing that we do.
>> What does that mean early product cycle?
>> It means we're at the outset of a new
technological change,
>> beginning of that is going to propel.
Yeah. A new market wave. And so maybe
it's easiest to highlight uh in
retrospect.
>> It turns out that when you and I were
starting our investing careers like we
started at a really good time like
>> you did I was in public markets.
>> Well you were in public markets and so
you had to deal with GFC and stuff.
Notwithstanding that that's capital it's
capital cycle that one.
>> It turns out and it's it's obvious in
retrospect. It's really hard to feel it
in the moment maybe less so because AI
is so well covered and you know the
question is are we in an AI bubble now?
not is there a good product cycle ahead
of us? Um but you know it turns out that
we had at the same time we had the
mobile uh we had cloud SAS e-commerce
all at the same time. Uh and that was a
great setup for us. If you look at all
the mistakes that we've made, you know,
as an industry 2021 is very well
covered. I always tell people the
biggest mistake from 2021 is that we
were actually kind of late product
cycle. And we just didn't realize it at
the time. There was a bit of a head fake
with COVID. We didn't realize we were
late product cycle. And what that means,
you know, in practice is the ideas are
just worse. The market opportunities are
worse. It's just harder to go be
successful right now. You know, when I
talk to our investors, our LPs, they're
all ask me like all of the questions
are, you know, are we in a bubble? Like
is the market too hot? How are you
dealing with valuations? And I'm like,
look, we're we're trying to be very
balanced about this. At the same time,
10 years from now, there's going to be a
bunch of really, really great companies.
And so, we got to be in the market on
the field. Uh, it turns out that, you
know, the last two years coming out, you
know, 22 to kind of early 25, I think
we're a really good period. I think this
is going to be a great a great vintage
of time to have been investing. You
know, we also have been surprised at how
long the companies have stayed private.
Like, it's they've stayed on the they've
stayed on the bingo card for us longer
than we expected. Got it. And that's
been great because we've converted those
in a really, I think, in a really, you
know, attractive way. You know, if you
look at the last year of our activity,
our portfolio dollar weighted is growing
112% and we entered at 21 times revenue.
And so I'll have this debate. First of
all, I recognize that revenue multiples
are flawed and all that. Uh, especially
for traditional investors. If I could
invest for the rest of my career in 112%
growing companies that are really really
great and good in markets at 21 times
revenue,
>> I would do it in a heartbeat. I would do
it in a heartbeat. I think that's way
less risky than something where you're
buying, you know, a 12% grower in PE for
15 times Ebatop because growth just
takes takes care of so much for you. I
think above 30% growth, the market still
doesn't fully value the growth rate.
>> You know, it's Why why is that the case?
>> I think it's just hard to model uh you
know my conclusion. I' I I've studied
all these companies that are you know I
called them the model busters but like
I've studied all these companies. It is
just so hard for any investor to build a
five or 10 year model where where high
growth persists. It's just not natural.
like the natural inclination, you know,
no one built a financial model for
Google or Visa that had them growing 20
years into existence at, you know, 15 or
20%. Like that just it would just be
totally unnatural to do. So, you know,
if you look at the moment of the iPhone,
and this goes back to the point about
product cycles and how much you can get
surprised in 2009, if you looked at
consensus estimates for Apple and then
compared
for for 2013, so 2009 consensus estimate
for the year 2013 and compared it to
actual performance in 2013, consensus
estimates were off by 3x.
Like, that's a massive number. And
that's like the most covered company in
the world.
>> So
I think you can be surprised on growth
on these things. Like I get a big kick
out of that. I try to learn a lot about
it. But I think it's it's not natural to
model anything that way. Like it's so
natural to just say, "Hey, this
company's growing 80%." You know, then
they're going to grow 65, then 50, then
40, then 30, then a terminal growth
rate. And it's very different than a
company if it grows 80 and then the
growth rate persists 75, you know, 65
like it's like a 3x difference in your
valuation. And so you can just get it
massively different. So that's why I
love high growth. I mean, it's obvious
that's the math behind why why I love
it. But, you know, again, it's it's it's
actually just hard to appreciate it
because it's not natural uh to build a
model that way.
>> You and I have talked before about this
idea of like push versus pull companies.
Can you describe that difference and how
that's an idea that you care about when
evaluating them? It's it's magic when
you find a pull business. I have a
post-it note on my computer in the
office that says, "Is the market
demanding more of your product?"
It's the most special thing when it
happens. And and by the way, a lot of
these AI companies, like what's so
magical about the way ChatGpt has grown?
It's a billion users. Like it's organic.
It's all brand. And the shocking thing
about that one, by the way, is it
doesn't have a network effect. Like that
was that was one of the more surprising
things for us. Is the market demanding
more more of your product is probably
the most important question that we can
answer because when it happens,
especially in consumer, it it tends to
create the most special companies in the
world. So, you know, we've seen it in
companies like Roblox, you know, when it
really works. And that one has sort of
two network effects and so it's it's
super special. Um, we also see it in in
companies that aren't network factor
consumer. Like in the case of Anderol,
like turns out the market really really
really is demanding more of their
product. And there's many reasons for
that. We've sort of reached all at the
same time this confluence of AI
capabilities, autonomy, you know, sort
of knowhow and how to navigate
governments mostly from alums of
companies like Palunteer uh in SpaceX
at the same time that we have a
desperate geopolitical need. And so the
market is demanding more of their
product and that's really special. One
of the things that I say about push
businesses which is you know you got to
go sell it like sometimes those are
really successful and there's industries
where this is the case like cyber
security and things like that they don't
tend to get easier over time
>> like they tend to get harder like if you
have to go sell or market your product
the bigger you get often it gets harder
>> and so that's not always the case.
Sometimes you get sort of increasing
returns to scale from brand and things
like that. Um, but especially on the
consumer side, it almost always gets
harder if you're a push business. Tik
Tok maybe is the exception to the rule
where they pushed it early.
>> They pushed they pushed it early and so
aggressively.
>> And obviously, you know, if you're if
you're Facebook, you probably sit around
and think about that decision,
>> you know, forever. Maybe it's not even a
decision. uh I wasn't on the inside
obviously but you know obviously the
growth of Tik Tok was fueled by
advertising on Facebook in large part
which is is is kind of crazy to think
about but you know especially if you're
a sort of Google or Facebook driven ad
business like it almost never gets
easier uh it it always gets harder and
and Google and Facebook are the ones who
have kind of accumulate better economics
over time you know at the expense of the
people who advertise on them. So yeah,
the push versus pull thing especially
like so right now we talk about this in
the age of AI. If you gave us I think
there's sort of like how do we assess AI
businesses right now is an interesting
thing. One is ease of customer
acquisition and we see this with like
the really really special ones like
cursor you know which is sort of been
largely viral growth. It happens even
with things that need to be sold like a
bridge like you got to go sell to
hospital systems. It turns out like
hospital systems are dying for this
because the doctors love it. It's really
good. It saves them a lot of time and
it's really valuable. So, ease of
customer acquisition is something that,
you know, is sort of a must for us in
this AI wave. Um, the second is customer
behavior, customer retention, customer
engagement. There are some head fakes
that we've seen of things that grow
really fast and then they kind of fall
off and they're experimental. So, you
know, the the things that have sort of
durable behavior, things like cursor,
you know, where the users really really
use it ideally or increasingly use it
over time. Harvey is an example of a
company where as the models have gotten
better, customer engagement and usage
has actually really grown. It actually
took kind of a step change which which
we've seen. Uh which is interesting to
see because it kind of happened at the
same time as reasoning the reasoning
breakthroughs. We were like oh that
makes sense actually like lawyers need
to reason and turns out like models got
really good at reasoning and people use
the products a lot more. And then
there's gross margins. And we kind of
give a little bit of a pass on gross
margins. Right now, we're in this funny
environment where, you know, latestage
SAS cloud. We would look at a company
and it's like, oh man, if you're not 70%
plus gross margin, you're not really a
SAS business or cloud business,
whatever. And, you know, that's going to
be a knock and people will trade you
differently. And that's when you get
valued as, you know, revenue versus
gross profit or whatever. Now, it's like
a badge of honor to have low gross
margins because we're like, oh, at least
people are using your AI products. you
know, if we see like we get these
pitches and they're like, I'm an AI
thing and I got 75% gross margins. I'm
like, well, no one's using the AI stuff
then. Like that's doesn't really seem
like an AI product to me. You know, we
give a little bit of a pass on that. The
expectation is the cost, you know, is
going to continue to go down.
>> Just the inference cost.
>> Inference cost is going to go down over
time. I mean, there's
>> so many existential questions about
market structure, you know, that will
predict inference cost. Uh, but, you
know, history of technology would would
suggest that it's going to go down over
time. um you know it's been the the cost
of you know inference has gone down at
the same time that reasoning happened
and so token token usage has gone way up
uh so you know you haven't yet seen any
improvement in gross margins but I think
you know over time that's that's likely
to happen
>> you basically just not care like if a
company has 0% gross margin for example
but the revenue growth and the customer
love and all this kind of stuff the poll
is all there does it round to we don't
care So there's a big difference between
having 30% gross margins and 70% gross
margins. So we do we do care. Our
expectation is if you're producing a lot
of customer value and if the models get
a lot better over time, you're going to
increasingly produce customer value that
the cost is going to go down. There's
not going to be so much market power the
model providers that it's going to
settle out where these businesses are
probably higher margin businesses. I
think they'll be lower margin businesses
than SAS businesses. You know, maybe
they end up as 50% margin companies as
opposed to 80,
>> but the size of the impact and the usage
and the amount that they'll be able to
capture to our point on business model
earlier is probably so high that it it's
fine.
>> How much do you care that the way the
product behaves and the way it's
distributed is like truly singular and
different than competitors versus just
like the best of a class of company?
There's sort of a foundational point
which is every great company either has
unique product or unique distribution.
The best companies in the world have
both. The best companies in the world
have such unique product that it leads
to unique distribution.
But if you don't have either of those,
>> what's your favorite example of that?
I'll use a a recent one um that you know
the the product you know is so good that
people just naturally have gravitated to
it is cursor like you know and again
maybe in the fullness of time that'll
get harder uh you know but GitHub GitHub
is a great example of this right uh I'll
tell a funny story about GitHub too so
GitHub GitHub was so special of a
company that for a long period of time
they never actually talked to customers
so the first time I ever met GitHub
They were like, "We got to tell you
this. This is so awesome. We sold to
Walmart and they're paying us 400,000
bucks and no one ever talked to them on
the phone." We were like, "Wow, this is
an incredibly magical product and an
incredibly magical market." Just imagine
if you had talked to them on the phone.
Like what would they have paid you if
you just called them on the phone? Like
they probably would have paid you $4
million. you know unique product that
leads to unique distribution with a
founder that wants to optimize the
situation. So, you know, the AI the AI
founders like I'm I'm not the one
involved with cursor uh but you know
Michael is a very special founder and
his team they recognize what they have
and then they are aggressively pursuing
the enterprise at the same time and so
that's a really good combination where
you have unique product you have great
product people love you know that leads
to some uniqueness of distribution and
then you can build on that advantage by
saying hey we have all this bottoms up
use like we're going to go sell
enterprises and so you know a big part
of what we do as a firm
is we you know help to facilitate co you
know customer introductions customer new
business we call our go to market
function they're referred to as EBC's
you know sometimes and we get notes
after everyone and this is the most fun
thing in the world of AI because we get
these notes and like in the case of
cursor every single time it's like
immediately to Pac immediately to Pac
you know proof concept whatever uh
immediately to Pac and like oh
immediately to you know fullale And like
the C you can see that like that's
actually incremental data for us in
making decisions but you can see it like
it is magic uh when when it happens. Um
and so Martin led the A of uh Kurser you
know one one of my partners who leads
our infrastructure fund and after one of
these emails he chimed in and it's a big
it's a big list. It's like 100 people on
the list or something. Um he he wrote
product market fit. And so now
we're like, "Oh, you know, PMF is now
PFMF." Uh, and so you kind of you when
you see that, you know, that's unique
product, that's unique distribution, and
like you have a founder, founding team
or, you know, full full set of employees
who really wants to optimize it. Like
>> what are the tradeoffs of the way that
Andre is structured? Like no firm is
perfect. Like there's there's choices
for how you have structured and nested
the team. Lots of different groups,
leaders of of groups like you. What are
the negative parts or the negative parts
of the trade-offs for how Andreson is
structured versus like a more monolithic
structure or something that was just
different? Our strategy for scaling is
pretty well covered. But effectively,
we think scale allows us to bring more
power to the entrepreneurs and give them
a greater chance to be successful in the
market. That's the fundamental that's
the fundamental thesis be behind the
scaling for us and with more resources
you can bring you know more resources to
bear for the entrepreneur. So for us
when I joined
every single Monday and every single
Friday we used to sit in the room
together all of us and we'd hear all the
pitches and then we'd have long meetings
to talk about each of them all as a
group and so you know Dixon was leading
our crypto fund and you know we'd have
bofund pitches and we'd all listen to
all of them and then we'd all debate and
then we realized at a point like that
was not the optimal use of time you know
like Dixon weighing in on a like you
know bio investment and vice versa like
probably doesn't make sense and you
could extrapolate that out to a bunch of
our you know a bunch of our investment
processes. So we decided to decentralize
Benmark decided to decentralize the firm
sort of put you know more power down
into the investing teams that ran each
investment fund and uh the reasoning
behind that is twofold. one, we thought
it would allow us to have better
expertise around the table. Like if
you're only just fully deep in
infrastructure or applications or
American dynamism or crypto or bio,
that's an advantage. It's both an
advantage in making decisions but also
an advantage in go to market with the
entrepreneurs. And then secondly, if we
are going to scale, you can't scale an
organization with like 25 or 30 decision
makers around a table. It's too hard.
like you can't make a trade-off between
should we put an incremental dollar into
a bio fund investment or a crypto
investment or um how should we think
about reserving this verse that it's too
hard and so we we shrank the size of
decision makers by doing this to a
smaller group who's in charge of their
own funds um and so far that's working
really well and I think that's mostly a
function of the fact that our early
stage folks they're really good and
we're all really collaborative
the only trade-off that we have at the
growth fund is selfishly that process
that I described where we all sit around
the table. It's kind of valuable for me
like you know it's good for us to have
access to all information at all times
because we sit across all of our early
stage funds. The way we operate is we
invest across all of our sectors.
>> What what percent of the investments you
make did the firm have a prior
investment in? a little over half. And
then if you take the number of
investments, so if you just do it by
dollars, it's a little over half that
are pre-existing venture investments.
And then if you add the dollars that
we're investing in pre-existing
investments that were pre-existing
growth fund originated investments,
>> it's something like followons, it's
something like 70%. So like 70% of the
dollars that we're investing,
>> like we got deep knowledge on on the
companies. Uh, I call it game film. Like
we just get like I talk about game film
all the time. You know, we it's so
important when assessing an investment,
when assessing a founder, you know, game
film is not just numbers. Like it's
>> How do you do reserving in the growth
fund? Is it materially different than
elsewhere?
>> When we first started the growth fund, I
was like, Scott, zero reserves. Let's do
it. Every single dollar is going to have
to be, you know, scrutinized for
literally every dollar. It turns out
that's not really practical. Like, you
need to reserve a little bit. So, we
reserve a tiny amount. And this is for
small follow-ons where, you know, our
participation is important, but we're
not a lead. We do zero reserving for
large investment amounts that we think
we're going to make in a company because
I think that would lead to lazy
decision-m,
>> you know, we'd say, "Oh, well, we
reserved for it. Let's do it."
>> So, you just treat it as a new
investment.
>> Every single thing is a new investment.
So if you look at our largest
investments in the growth fund and just
run down the list, you know, uh data
bricks, uh SpaceX, Andrew, OpenAI, XAI,
Flock, Safety, Figma, Stripe, Coinbase,
like they're across all they're most of
them are across multiple funds. That's
kind of by design. Like we want it we
want we want to be flexible and say,
"Hey, if we're super excited about a new
investment, it's fine. Just keep going."
We have no target metrics for
inside the inside the fund verse outside
the fund.
>> We have no target metrics for industry
like you know infrastructure versus
American dynamism versus crypto or
whatever. It should always be best ideas
when but I you know manage the fund and
so I closely track like how are we doing
on those metrics and and and generally
speaking like thematically do we feel
like the fund is a good reflection of
what we see as the opportunity set for
the next 10 years. C
>> can we talk about selling? This is such
an interesting topic to me because you
can ask lots of investors that invest in
private markets like when and how they
sell and most of the answers you hear
are fairly simple heristics like one you
hear a lot is you know when there's a
crystallization you sell a third hold a
third hold a third forever Fredson yeah
like now later that'd be one example
there's lots of you know similar
heruristics how do you think about
especially because you're investing at
the growth stage probably closer to the
opportunity to sell to to another
investor or the thing going public. Talk
talk about what you've learned about
selling and just how you've done it so
far.
>> Selling is it's so hard to do this job.
We've tried a number of different
variations. So I think it's different at
the venture stage. So like your Fred
Wilson model like the third third I
think it's totally sensible you know cuz
he's coming in extremely early and so
you know for him that's relatively
simple. You know, we have our own
version of it's not algorithmic but
semi-algorithmic decision- making for
the early stage and you know we take
some very simple qualitative things like
is the founder still running the company
which we
>> value a lot
>> value a lot and then a sort of
qualitative are they the market leader
that we feel great about and if so we
would buy bias to hold longer and if not
we would buy bias to you know exit
sooner. We also try to overlay an
assessment of how it's valued versus
performance, which is really, really
hard. Um, and so I would say we've been
fortunate in that generally we've gotten
it pretty right.
>> Why don't you buy whole companies?
>> One of our folks in IR asked me
yesterday like, why haven't we done a
buyout fund? I think culturally
it's totally different than what we do.
Like all that we want to do and all that
we stand for is helping the next
generation of companies go beat the
incumbents.
>> And so culturally buying the incumbent
and trying to make them last as long as
possible and squeeze as much as they can
out of their customers or or whatever it
may be, it's just culturally
antithetical to what we do.
>> What are the most interesting strategies
or things that Upstarts do to beat
incumbents? Like what are your favorite
ways that company compan companies beat
incumbents?
>> Business model shift is a super powerful
thing that's very hard for incumbents to
react to. That's part of what is so
exciting about the customer support
industry and decagon. It's like the odds
are so stacked in their favor because
the business model is going to be very
hard for incumbents to react to and it's
on the customer side better, faster,
cheaper by an order of magnitude in you
know in each case. So business model
shift is one. The two simple components
that I'm looking for, which generally
we're not really seeing yet, is
completely re reimagined UI and then
completely new sources of data. So,
we're large investors in data bricks.
We're very optimistic about the data
layer. I think they'll have some success
in, you know, enabling applications
built on top. But the UIUX thing and the
data thing, I think, are what paired
with a business model shift, I think,
are what are going to give the startups
the best chance against the incumbents.
the more dramatic the shift in those,
the harder it's going to be for the
incumbents. So, take salesforce.com.
Like, I use this as an example. Like,
it's a good company. I never would have
thought it would be as big as it is.
It's a it's a good company. So, maybe
they'll be one of the incumbents that
survives and, you know, reacts.
What do people do in Salesforce.com?
It's basically like a sophisticated form
checker with some an with with some
analysis and it's like brutal. It's it's
painful to use.
The future with AI is not going to be
anything like that. Like it's just going
to be to my point earlier about
proactive versus reactive. It's going to
be a proactive thing. Yeah.
>> Like you a salesperson,
you're going to log into your Salesforce
and it's going to be like, "Hey, these
are the five customers that you, you
know, have business that you should be
doing. Oh, by the way, I've been
monitoring what they've been doing
online. There's a shift in this group.
You got to be aware of it. I've drafted,
you know, a call script. This person
actually likes to be talked to on the
phone. this person wants just to engage
via your AI email. I've drafted one for
you. I've already taken a bunch of
action on your behalf. Here's what you
need to do.
>> Like that's going to h that that's going
to be the future. I think the data that
goes into informing that is no longer
the database that makes Salesforce so
powerful. It's all the unstructured data
that's getting pulled from every
interaction that everyone has
everywhere.
And so my hope is that the fullness of
the new product has that entirely
reimagined UIUX. The fact that it's
pulling, you know, all this new data
from different places is an advantage to
incumbent because Salesforce is so
sticky because of the column or database
that they have. Um, and then if you like
on top of it have a new business model
that's attached to it. Like I think
that's a really good shot for a startup
to be able to finally
>> go rip Salesforce out. I mean if you
look at the SAS and cloud wave basically
the whole story was a 7xing in the
amount of revenue in the market there's
this question of like who wins the
incumbents versus startups it basically
split like 50/50 so 7xed more revenue
incumbents grew a bunch like they grew
they took half of the new share startups
to took half the new share I think the
more dramatic the shift especially with
the more dramatic the shift in in
potential business model the more likely
it favors the startups that's the bets
we
Um, you know, my hope is that's what
happens, but we'll see.
>> It's incredibly fun to explore all this
with you in like a formal way, having
done it like so informally for 20 years
or whatever it is. I think you might
know my traditional closing question.
What is the kindest thing that anyone's
ever done for you?
>> I do know that question and I I've
thought a lot about it because there's a
lot of things that I consider, you know,
in my life that have kind of broken my
way. You know, I grew up in Kentucky,
far away from this world, and uh you
know, a lot a lot of lucky breaks kind
of went my way. The thing that I reflect
on the most is, you know, we spent the
whole time talking about work. The other
thing that I do in my life is my kids,
you know, um and something has become
really clear to me with my kids age that
they are now, which is the sacrifices my
parents made for me are extraordinary.
They're incredible. My dad always brings
up like, "Oh, I was on the sidelines in
the rain watching you and driving you
from, you know, soccer to baseball to
basketball, you know, sports and all the
activities that I was able to
participate in as a kid." I think made
me into the person I am in a lot of
ways. And now I see it with my kids cuz
I have to do that work and I have such a
greater appreciation for what my parents
gave to me and the sacrifices they made.
>> Amazing. Simple thought. Thanks for your
time, man.
>> Yeah, great to be with you.